---
title: Anatomy of an audit
summary: A deep dive into the anatomy of Drutiny
date: 2019-03-13
draft: false
comments: false
tags: ["governance", "automation", "fun"]
---

My intention with this blog post is to dispel a lot of confusion surrounding Drutiny - an auditing tool for Drupal websites. It _really_ is a unique project with enormous potential however it does require knowledge, experience and attention for it to continue to thrive.

Drutiny was first conceptually introduced to me during a technical meetup held by the Australian Government Department of Industry and co-managed by myself and the Australian Government Department of Finance.

My speech was around all the reasons individuals in our community should be using composer for Drupal 7 dependency management. Even though those of us in the group with the right level of access is limited to a particuarly small crowd.

The Australian Government Department of Finance brought a representative from Acquia along and talked about Drutiny's auditing processes, the underlying technology and the reasons behind it. At the time I thought it was interesting though I wasn't working with them directly at the time - this was long before I applied to work with them.

As time passed I've learned to appreciate its existance, what makes it unique and interesting any I've come to understand how and why so many people I've talked to have appeared to have struggled to understand it.

I wanted to talk about the structure, and how the pieces fit together as well as how you can/should create your own audits and even provide a single, complete example of a highly customized audit especially made for this blog post.

## Terms of reference

### Profiles

A Drutiny profile is a structured data file (in YAML) which contains the declaration of a list of policies (see below) which include parameters and settings.

A profile will be allocated to any subdirectory of where Drutiny is called from using the filename format `*.profile.yml`. Where `*` represents the machine name of the profile which is called from a terminal.

They can be anywhere, as Drutiny will search `$PWD` recursively for files matching `*.profile.yml` before linting them based upon the required format and structure.

### Policies

A Drutiny policy contains metadata describing the behavior and responses of an Audit, and does not provide specific logic associated to the Audit. A policy will simply provide human-readable description under all conditions, it can template the response for the report depending on the state returned, and it will declare the parameters needed for the Audit to run.

A policy can live anywhere in the codebase, somewhere under the folder where Drutiny was called from. Drutiny will search for any policies matching `*.policy.yml` before linting the files for syntax and structure. 

### Audits

An audit much like policies and profiles can live anywhere, however this is where the grunt of the work happens. Most importantly we need to consider namespacing and autoloading - a number of considerations to be made.

For example, how are you going to structure your project to be compliant with best practices? To make sure your code can be tacked on as a Drutiny dependency, you must use a PHP package to automatically handle autoloading and namespacing.

It doesn't matter where they live, as long as they are properly namepsaced and autoloaded. They are however supposed to be in PSR-4 folder structures, but we'll come back to this.

These major considerations aside, an audit can come in two flavours - an audit which cannot be actioned, and one that can be actioned. The terminology here is "remediate", and by running a profile with the remediate flag, Drutiny will execute a separate function when the policy fails.

## Should we create an audit?

So, with the bulk of the concepts explained we should think about creating an Audit. For this exercise I will provide an example which will be available on Packagist and I'll walk through each step. Last foreword would be that my intention is to run the audit against a vanilla installation of Drupal VM, this is for consistency and reliability - anybody can get started and produce comparative or identical results.

### What you need to follow along.

* Vagrant & VirtualBox (unless you bring your own alternative)
* Composer

### Setting up our test environment.

I'll admit this should be self-explanatory but I will go through this as well.

1. Get your testing environment working!

  ```
  git clone git@github.com:geerlingguy/drupal-vm.git 
  ~/AwesomeAudit
  cd ~/AwesomeAudit
  vagrant up
  ```
2. Verify your testing environment works.

  ```
  drush @drupalvm.www status
  ```

**Note**: The drush alias `@drupalvm.www` will only work when using Drush v9.

### Deciding on a folder structure.

I'm going to provide a folder structure for you to follow - but feel free to change it up. You'll need to update references to that folder in `composer.json` though.

```
drutiny-dev/
  Policies/
  Profiles/
  vendor/
    fubarhouse/
      drutiny-themecheck/
        src/
          Audit/
      composer.json
  composer.json
  composer.lock
```

### Let's get started!

So now that we have a clear picture of our structure, we need to decide on a custom Audit. So, let's create an audit which will check to see if the website is using a given theme as the default theme, and if it doesn't we will optionally remediate it.

To get started, Drutiny actually recommends their template, so it makes sense we start there. You can see the repository for this over on [GitHub](https://github.com/drutiny/project-dev).

```
composer create-project --no-interaction --prefer-source -s dev drutiny/project-dev drutiny-dev
```

We can verify it worked by running the following:

```
cd drutiny-dev && bin/drutiny profile:run test @drupalvm.www --format=json
```

You should see something indicating success like this:

```
[OK] Report written to drupalvmwww-test-20190314-231040.json
```

Let's bulk out our application and package.

```
mkdir Policies
mkdir Profiles
mkdir -p vendor/fubarhouse/drutiny-themecheck/src/Audit
```

And add a composer file...

```
composer init --working-dir=vendor/fubarhouse/drutiny-themecheck/ --name=fubarhouse/drutiny-themecheck --description="Example Drutiny audit used in a blog post." --no-interaction
```

And sort out our autoload/namespacing issues - we need namespace `\Drutiny\Fubarhouse\Audit` to resolve to our `Audit` folder. So, use your favourite editor and sort the following structure out:

```
cat vendor/fubarhouse/drutiny-themecheck/composer.json
{
  "name": "fubarhouse/drutiny-themecheck",
  "description": "Example Drutiny audit used in a blog post.",
  "require": {}
  "autoload": {
    "psr-4": {
      "Drutiny\\Fubarhouse\\Audit\\": "src/Audit/",
    }
  }
}
```

Now, we can actually write our Audit.