+++
date = 2018-01-03
lastmod = 2018-01-03
draft = true
tags = ["general"]
title = "A little about me"
math = true
summary = """
Details about me and my career.
"""

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

I was taught the foundations of programming in Pascal by [Nick](https://twitter.com/nickmaniatis_ed) in 2002. His classes were among the few I excelled in because I didn't care much for school at the time. I even sacrificed points on assessment items in the pursuit of self-education in coding. At the time this was a bad choice, but it is the very way I continue to work.

I cannot praise this man enough, and he was praised by many people I went to school with and even had a Facebook page dedicated to him made by his students.

Continuing beyond Pascal wasn't as seriously awesome, but in 2003 I continued onto learn HTML, CSS and JavaScript. I won't disclose the teachers name, however it ended up that many questions students had were redirected to me as I arguably knew the content better. I had a massive static HTML application which was basically my personal media player, complete with iframes.

In college (2004), we started with Cisco training for CCNA qualifications. I wasn't as keen, and we'll leave it at that. Java came in 2005, but I didn't partake much in it. I found the language to be overly verbose and the compiler to be painfully slow. I have since revisited Java and like many things about it, but I'm not fond of how particular circles write Java so I do not advertise this.

In 2006 after graduation I started with PHP using e107. I tried using Mambo and Drupal however simply couldn't manage to get sites going, or changed how I wanted them too. I eventually tried Wordpress and after losing my internals from being sick, moved onto Drupal again and I chose to stick with it despite the initially steep learning curve. This was around 2011, where I had a royal case of [Imposers Syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome), not believing I could actually earn money doing what I enjoy.

With 10 years non-professional experience in HTML, I scored some contracting roles in SharePoint and Squiz Matrix, and Drupal content management. I knew exactly where I wanted to be, and slowly but surely I positioned myself into power being a developer of Drupal modules.

That... wasn't enough. After embracing Drupal and doing some really cool things with it, and after being done with Microsoft I was forced into Unix, Linux, Bash and MacOS.

Initially I wasn't keen, but after finding a bunch of things I didn't like about operations work at the time, I just took off into the operations and dev-ops world.

[Adrian](https://twitter.com/marblegravy) graced me with his leadership and gave me the freedom to explore and tinker - and he benefited from this so much it wasn't conceivable at the time. I continue to support him and the software I wrote for us to this day despite not working together anymore.

[Murray](https://twitter.com/murrayw) introduced me (by recommendation) to the wonderful world of Ansible in 2015. The agency I was working for were working with his company to migrate all of their Drupal sites onto a new set of servers. I was able to run and manipulate the scripts as required, but the local environment was where the magic happened. Although Ansible is (unfortunately) written in Python, I took it upon myself to learn it - and I basically feel the same way about it as Java.

I now manage roughly 20 stupidly high quality Ansible roles on GitHub, I have spent so much time and frustration acquiring that skill that I think it's fair to say I am deserving - with recommendations available.

Since that piece of work, I was constantly improving it - but I was increasing complexity in a shell script that was just so stupidly cyclomatically complex that I deserved to be shot.

I was always wondering what I should rewrite it in... Python had a lot of things I didn't like and Ruby was looking promising but I wasn't sold. Following a separation of our team, I cut out a lot of the complexity and stripped it right back.

December 2016 was a glorious time. I had heard of the Go language, and it was on my list of things to learn - but I knew such little about it. I decided to learn it the moment JetBrains released a beta IDE for the language as I am so fond of their IDE's. I'm in fact using one to write this post now.

I worked on a project to get familiar with the language, and I wrote the world's best Go Ansible role to use for myself and maybe at work some day.

Following the resounding stability of that project, I moved onto an open source variety of that eye-stabbing shell "application"(?). After the first installment, I learnt many things and mid-2017 I decided to consolidate the project into one binary and change some of the core functionality.

For better or worse we use this open source application which I own at work for almost everything. It was all made within personal time, and I did ascertain informal consent for it and the language. I built this tool for my own personal gain, potentially for use at work and it was so awesome that I deprecated the existing VM.

I now write in Go, and I am looking to complete my education in (unmentioned) Rust, Python and Java.

I will be dedicating a blog post to why I love Go, so here's a rundown of some of my language opinions I don't hide.

Where I go from here? I want to further myself in configuration management, Go, and Rust. I don't know if Drupal is the answer to web (for me) anymore as Drupal 8 has basically become an elitist group which hinder my enjoyment of coding. I understand why, but where's my fun in it?

## CSS
* Few people use it well, browser compatibility is a nightmare.

## HTML
* Few people use it well, for such a basic skill.

## Go
* Static types
* Compiled
* Stupidly readable
* Created using principal design decisions
* No generics

## Java
* I love the strict type system.
* I... don't love interfaces.
* I find Java to be incredibly readable.
* I hate what're known as Factories.
* It's a very nice language, but gets too complicated too quickly.

## JavaScript
* I don't like generics - at all.
* I find JS to be painful to work with.
* Eloquent JS is so rare that you must write everything to yourself.
* Lack of ability to move forward, browsers, government etc.
* The community misses the point of development.
* The dependency management tools are the worst in the industry.
* So many competing standards that I could end up stabbing my eyes out.

## Pascal
* I really want to revisit this language to connect with my past, however I struggle to find a *useful* thing to build.
* It has `goto`, which is both bad, and rare. I like that.

## PHP
* I enjoy writing in PHP for the most part.
* I despise security and memory in PHP.
* I loathe the lack of variable scoping in PHP.
* I loathe the loose typing of PHP, however it's generally not a problem.

## Python
* I don't like snake_case
* I find it's selling point of readability contradictory - I don't find it readable any more than JavaScript.
* I don't like it's weird human-readable operations...

## Ruby
* I really enjoy the Ruby language, I just don't find Ruby useful.
* It is popularized by a framework (Rails) I don't know, but I'm generally not a fan of libraries.

## Rust
* I really enjoy it, but I find tooling and training to be both sub-standard and appalling.
* I want to learn more, get more involved, I want to see this language improve. I suspect it will.