+++
date = 2017-12-20
lastmod = 2017-12-20
draft = false
tags = ["ansible", "configuration management", "python"]
title = "So long, PyEnv"
math = true
summary = """
Notes on why my Python Ansible role will soon not support PyEnv.
"""

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

A man I worked with until recently, I worked with one of the most memorable people I've ever worked with.

[@marblegravy](https://twitter.com/marblegravy) is a talented designer who also is surprisingly capable in programming and management - he's the closest to being classed a 'unicorn' as you'll find.
He single-handedly allowed me to flourish as a developer - having come from so many environments that unknowingly held me back.

He always had a love for Node.js, as he was fortunate enough to work with 3-4 literal super-geniuses simultaneously. His designer mind provoked this, and that trickled to me in the form of operations and version management tools.

One of the projects I invested a lot of time into was an open-source Node.js Ansible role which used the NVM product - rightly so. The core focus of the NVM project has since been applied to various other modern languages, and I even used it previously with my Go role.

I still support PyEnv and RVM (for Ruby). In order to build a better quality product, using better standards and experience means I can no longer support this implementation with supporting tests. Making subtle changes to my Python role has ended without success, and my Ruby role is headed the same way - though not nearly as bad.

And I come to the point where I am forced into rewriting this role, in order to not be stalled, under-supported or under-maintained.

I generally make Ansible roles for personal use, but I make them to be feature rich and to be well supported via cloud-CI tests - and I can no longer manage this with PyEnv. There are problems in the Python community which do not help the language, Ansible officially doesn't even support Python 3.x yet and an Ansible role which breaks the system it runs on cannot be considered stable.

I don't know if I'll ever get into Python more than I am now - I do want to, however these problems simply prevent it.

So, version 1.0 will be the last release which supports PyEnv. My current plan with this role simply includes the following:

- It must install a specified version of python from source
- Prepackaged installs could be an option - however it's not a requirement.
- PyPi installations/packages are a must
- It should pass on as many architectures as possible - hopefully the 20 supported by the Node role
- It must be idempotent

I've basically quantified this by identifying from an industry leader that their users have reportedly installed Python using PyEnv has made up 7% of installations, I am exploring the same justification for the Ruby role at the moment.