+++
date = 2017-12-27
lastmod = 2017-12-27
draft = false
tags = ["ansible", "configuration management", "ruby"]
title = "Ansible and Ruby"
math = true
summary = """
Progress, and the future of the Ruby role I manage.
"""

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

I'm writing this likely one week in advance of publishing it, for the record.

I've been banging my head against a certain brick wall with my Ruby role. I may not actively use Ruby, however I can read and write it. At the time of learning and using Ruby (the language and not Rails), I undertook an effort to completely rewrite my Ansible role.

The time has come where I'm auditing all of them - which is a much larger undertaking than I could have ever anticipated.

Using the `become` attribute by default worked really well for the Ruby role, and one of the key items in my audit is to completely discontinue using it - which is completely breaking my Python and Ruby roles.

The problem in this case is that the space can't be allocated for the installation of the Ruby binary / standard library. My intention was to ditch RVM altogether, however in light of finding out the JetBrains [Developer Survey for 2017 (Ruby)](https://www.jetbrains.com/research/devecosystem-2017/ruby/) has shown roughly half of their customers have reported to use RVM, it makes it terribly hard to justify removing this existing support.

In light of this, and in knowing the role works perfectly when testing it locally via Docker without the use of Travis, I can safely remove the actual install of Ruby from the tests and otherwise test for the installation of RVM.

So in the upcoming release of the Ruby role, you'll find all of the bells and whistles I aim to include which won't include the removal of RVM, but in particular:

* Complete audit of the role
* Shell exports audit
* Adding shields and licenses as appropriate
* Tests should pass on 20 linux distributions, unless specific support requires unreasonable investment of time.

On a side note, I do want to work with Ruby more. It doesn't suffer from any of the problems I believe exist in the Python or Node.js world, however as the struggle always is - I need to find the right project.

Should you have any ideas, feel free to drop me a line.