---
title: Winds of change
subtitle: Change can be good right?
summary: The change which is probably the challenge I've been seeking for two years.
date: 2018-10-23
draft: true
comments: false
tags: ["career"]
---

> <small>_Catch 22: I can't and won't reveal much about my work, specific products, services or companies. Work will not make it here directly unless there's some vocational open-source component._</small>

After beginning to work with my previous employer, I helped the team in a range of ways using operational tooling, configuration management and a range of cool, customised open source tools.

Slowly, but surely, I made this happen and I managed to continue the innovation even after the team separated due to administrative change.

Tomorrow (the date of this article being published, October 23 2018), the formal process for moving into this new position is started and a new journey begins.

Not only will it (probably) comprise of many exciting challenges in areas of speciality which I'm particularly experienced in, but it will also offer new challenges, a new team, a new location and a horde of change.

Thankfully, it's a community-centric culture and provides many unique opportunities not often found in work settings. The team are exactly the type of people I love working with and more importantly they have a broad range of managerial and client support.

Change can be good - though no change is easy until it's realised. Should you wish to follow this closer, you can keep an eye out on LinkedIn.

I look forward to the change, the team, the work and everything involved.