+++
date = 2018-02-23
lastmod = 2018-02-23
draft = false
tags = ["drupal", "development", "theming", "2018"]
title = "Drupal 7 Brands at scale"
math = true
summary = """
Would you care to explore a unique Drupal situation with me?
"""

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

Let's explore a hypothetical situation in Drupal theme management.

Here's our situation:

* We have a Drupal 7 codebase.
* A standardized set of modules are available to all clients.
* Clients only have access to change their own theme(s).
* Every customer uses the standard installation profile.
* Every customer wants to change themes for sections of content.
* Every customer wants to track changes to content sections such as political campaigns, unique layouts and designs used etc.
* You simply cannot allow clients to use each others' themes.
* A few clients need these layout changes to simply expire and return to the default theme at a configurable date.

Using the following requirements, how would you allow your customers to use the interface to change the theme for these sections of content or individual pages?

1. You want to avoid each customer adding bloat into the theme (a template file, various scripts or stylesheets).
2. You want to avoid each customer adding a theme hook to each sites' theme for a very long and complex case statement.
3. You need a dedicated user role to delegate operations staff to manage what themes are available to each customer.
4. To assist your operations staff who prefer a command-line, a way to influence what themes are available to each customer from a shell.
5. You need to track the implementation and changes over time to any scenario the customer decides changing themes is the best choice for them, for the sake of accountability.

So would you setup [ThemeKey](https://www.drupal.org/project/themekey), or [Context](https://www.drupal.org/project/context)? These community-accepted modules provide some of the features we described.

But if somebody was to remove any visibility of a political campaign (malicious, accident or otherwise), how would the organisation identify what changed, what caused it and potentially who asked for the change?

I came across a similar scenario with just one of the websites I manage at work and the premise was very different, in fact all we set out to achieve was to have an elegant way of managing the use of a couple of templates at configurable path based upon a variable.
 
I saw real opportunity in this idea, so I started an open-source project using a BSD license with the scope defined above.

If you have a similar situation, you're welcome to try my [Brand](https://github.com/fubarhouse/brand) module. I hope it can solve similar problems for you, as I love building usable code that assists developers.

For the record, it is currently only available on GitHub, however that may change over time.