---
title: "Introduction"
subtitle: A quick explanation about myself and this site.
date: 2018-05-25T23:10:00+10:00
draft: false
tags: ["general", "introduction"]
bigimg: [{src: "/blog/img/triangle.jpg", desc: ""}, {src: "/blog/img/sphere.jpg", desc: ""}, {src: "/blog/img/hexagon.jpg", desc: ""}]
summary: A quick self-biography, and details about this site including the colours and technology.
---

I'm Karl and I'm a technologist who primarily works with PHP and Go, however I'm quite familiar with Java, Ruby, JavaScript/Nodejs, Bash and various other languages, and I'm in the process of learning Crystal and Rust.

I'm employed to work with Drupal as a specialist, and I'm an advocate of the [proverbs](https://go-proverbs.github.io/) and [values](https://golang.org/doc/faq#principles) supported by the Go programming language.

In the Drupal space, I have extensive experience with administration, site building, themes, modules (custom and contributed), back-end, release management etc. All of the nerdy fields of Drupal other than contributing to core, there's otherwise nothing that isn't covered well however I don't promote myself as a front-end developer.

I love to work in agile despite working largely independently, and I love automation, and to support developers and where possible manage development projects. I can't possibly have all of the fun so I love helping people to enjoy those fun things as much as myself. Having said this I'm in the process of accruing professional experience in team management.

Most of the really cool ideas and projects I use are conceived outside of paid work, though I'm always looking for realistic opportunity to bring them in-house.

In addition to the above, I really value [idempotence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence#Computer_science_meaning).

In my pursuit of idempotence, I've adopted Ansible in many ways due to the role it plays in [DrupalVM](https://github.com/geerlingguy/drupal-vm). Configuration management in a clean, readable, consistent and repeatable way is simply magic. It's no longer common I work on Ansible for work, however I've produced a lot of capability producing Ansible roles as an extension to this skill which I proudly maintain.

Configuration management with Ansible is remedial for me, when I have some down time.

I also have bias towards an IDE product range from JetBrains, who offer the world's best IDE's. Before I started using their products I really didn't like any IDE, but they've shown me the light!

## blog

I've been experimenting on and off with blogging for years and this is one is the culmination of experience.

The colours have been adopted from the [Go branding guidelines](https://storage.googleapis.com/golang-assets/go-brand-book-v1.0.1.pdf), as I am part of the community which identifies developers as 'Gophers'.

The colours may have been adopted, however the intention was to deter from the traditional colours most other Gophers would be familiar with.

This blog is a static website hosted on GitHub, and it is produced with the assistance of Hugo - a static website generator. It's the best of it's kind and funnily enough is written in Go.

It uses a modified version of the [BeautifulHugo](https://github.com/halogenica/beautifulhugo) theme, and other components have been changed to suit the branding guidelines for the Go programming language.

I hope to have some useful snippets of code on this blog so I can find them easier in the future, but a blog is something I'd like to discreetly maintain over time.

## finale

Whoever you are, I hope you find my blog useful and interesting. Please relay contact me if you wish to provide feedback.