---
title: Winds of change
subtitle: Moving on...
summary: An announcement - I'm moving to a new team!
date: 2018-11-01
draft: true
comments: false
tags: ["career"]
---

<style>
    .navbar-custom { background: #6fb3ff; border-color: #6fb3ff; }
    .navbar-custom .navbar-brand,
    .navbar-custom .nav li a { color: #1a1a1a; }
</style>

After beginning work with my previous mentor, I have truly thrived in automation, developer tooling, command line and command line tools and have undertaken a broad and now well crafted toolchain.

In addition to fields of work, I've become much more experienced in Drupal, Node.js & JavaScript, Ruby, Java, and a few others including my favourite - Go.

Go has replaced Bash at least as my go-to command-line tool/language, and is incredibly relaxing to work with. Much like my work in Ansible, I now consider work in Go to be remedial, relaxing and calming.

I'm now exploring React, and I even plan on being somewhat competent in C#. For most of these things, I've attached myself to a project to exercise these skills because I need to stay practiced.

So I've adopted all these tools, all this knowledge and all this capacity which mind you I am continuing to learn. So, what next?

Unfortunately my productiveness, efficiency and self-reliance has hurt me at work. Or, at least it would have worked out differently without this. I'm now in a position where I can't exercise any of the above skills outside of Drupal and Platform management at work.

We've thankfully jumped aboard the Docker train, which has made most of what we had redundant and I've been able to exercise my personal Docker work in a professional capacity and I'm now working with Docker-Compose inside of Docker-Compose and having too much fun with that.

Logical progression means I need to move, change or evolve or I'll stall my career and skills. The question still remains - what next?

So managing a platform managed by Acquia, AWS and the Australian Government Department of Finance was a lot of fun and I've actually made a career out of it, but I have consistently resisted certain aspects of the platform until recently.

I'm a nerd, and I need to be nerdy. The way for me to do this was to assume as much control over the platform, releases, the work, the innovation and management of the platform. For the longest time this was great - but every time I reached out to get inspiration for innovation I found myself disappointed because I was too specialised in operations where the focus for the other developers was frankly where it should have been.

Now at the point where I can't physically grow, and my career has peaked where I work. So I must seek new work, which has risks, rewards and merits.

Anybody who is familiar with the strategies behind what information services, whole of government strategy and the Australian Government Department of Finance, and who is also has that much extra nerdiness may be familiar with Amazee's Lagoon.

Amazee is a service provider who have developed an open source cloud platform, Lagoon. It is from the user interface under development which I've borrowed the colours for, and I've made sure they're accessible and will not deviate on this page over time.

So that is that, I will soon be making a move to go and work for the Australian Government Department of Finance, who have the best chance at pushing me technically and further whist being inside government and not on a contract.

I look forward to working with the team. Please come and say hello if you're involved with the community, I promise I won't bite.