+++
date = 2018-01-01
lastmod = 2018-01-01
draft = true
tags = ["general", "personal", "2018"]
title = "Beginning the fresh year of 2018."
math = true
summary = """
2018 is here, and I've decided to reinvent myself to some degree.
"""

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

My lovely wife was being very kind 6 months ago and purchased me a notably expensive backpack in an effort to rid me of the one I purchased from the Apple store - which at the time of purchase was expected to house just one MacBook Pro.

I dismissed it, as I preferred the briefcase-style I was using at the time. So as the times change, as the needs change, I have decided to make use of this very nice bag which was found at Aldi.

It has enough storage that I'd never need more - in fact I could comfortably store a third MBP in it - and I may do. It's 2018 - I could look into upgrading my MacBook to a used 2013 MacBook without any serious financial investment. I do need to limit those, as money is much tighter than I'd like right now.

It also features a little storage spot for phones, and areas for protruding cables. As an interim solution for the next two weeks I'll be using that - however I've purchased some immitation AirPods, which I suppose one day may or may not be the real deal.

I've also purchased a [Bento Stack](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/bento-stack-for-apple-accessories-iphone), which could be argued for overkill, over-engineered... My argument is that it's design is specific to my needs, the size in particular would be best suited to a backpack. I'm not happy about the price, however it is modest.

With all these little things, and the following:

* a fresh install of MacOS on my old 2011 Macbook Pro, which is on 16GB of ram with a 525GB SSD;
* a bunch of awesome tools (licensed and otherwise);
* The full JetBrains suite;
* A bunch of online training, including perspectives and such,

I'll be off to a great, fresh start.

It's all about the little details, which make up a whole - it's the attitude that matters. So, with all this said, here are my New Years Resolutions:

* Finish last years NYR by clearing the debt I can. I suspect I'll be able to get half way there this year, so we shall see.
* Prioritize family safety more
* Be better organised in my work, personal life, personal online life and in my finances.
* To dabble in more technologies
* To finish all the courses I have started, regardless of skill otherwise assertained, and to manage a project or repository for each language (Go, Java, Python, Ruby)
* If JetBrains are to improve the tooling of their Rust plugin into an IDE, I wish to become equally proficient in Rust as I am in Go.

I wish you the very best in 2018, may you make it the year of success. Know that you don't need to be dragged down and cut off at the knees - everybody learns at different paces and everybody wants different things.

Make 2018 **your** year.