---
title: Year of the Linux desktop
subtitle: A transformation years in the making.
date: 2020-03-03
draft: false
comments: false
tags: ["personal", "linux"]
---

About five years ago my life was transformed when a certain video game was released. It was around this time I was exploring the idea of how I could move away from using Microsoft products. However the two options I had weren't appropriate enough. Mac simply was hopeless when it came to gaming and Linux wasn't... mature enough, in that space. It was however on a trajectory so timing wasn't favourable.

I've been using Microsoft products my whole life, however Windows 10 never really gelled with me. I would have been happier staying on Windows 8 - which is saying something. As time passed I gradually used my desktop less and less - having a child and much less time prevented this. So many privacy implications, so many opinions and forced updates and Windows is garbage when it comes to automation and terminal-based configuration/usage...

I transitioned to using MacBook Pro's for work - I even got a used 2014 one shortly after starting my current job to be supplemental to my work laptop so that I'm not using that one on personal time. I got used to and very good at Steam's network streaming (which I cannot recommend enough) and even picked up a now discontinued 'Steam Machine'.

Eventually I hit roadblocks... kubernetes work is very demanding with virtual machines on Macs - running on bare metal was a horrible experience. So, it seemed logical to move to Linux like I'd been planning for years. But... as much as I love sysops and LXC I also love gaming.

Eventually... I became anxious. I'm a builder, I'm a tinkerer, and yet I was using something so stock that I couldn't upgrade the RAM if I wanted to. On top of this, I started noticing problems and limitations. I still today use my personal MacBook, but I enjoy using it much less...

It wasn't until late last year a Linux advocate I know encouraged me to look into the idea a little more seriously. So when money allowed, I picked up a 512GB SSD and gave it a whirl.

I didn't spend much time choosing the distribution. I wanted something challenging, something I could learn from and something not specifically commercial or easy. The choice for me was easy - Arch.

I stepped through the process many times, failing and retrying several times. After getting started I tried getting my feet wet, breaking the display manager and at one point xorg was completely broken. With my Linux experience on the shell I managed to persevere through these problems which I created and eventually I settled for KDE Plasma. The logs and applications available on the shell made quick work for much of this.

For somebody with no desktop linux experience I was rather proud of how I endured all of this and overcame it, because I personally don't know a lot of people that wouldn't give up if something became too hard.

I couldn't be happier, and I wish I made the move sooner. I continue to game seamlessly using Windows games on Steam via Proton - I haven't tried Lutris with gamemode yet. Docker is absolutely next-level on linux, and I've managed a couple of system upgrades since.

My system has everything I could possibly want, other than some sorely needed upgrades. I'm still rocking a 4790K w/ 16GB 2133Mhz DDR3 RAM, tonnes of storage and 2 incredible EVGA 770s. Even gaming performs well but I'm planning to modernize it with comparable hardware in 2020. If you're wondering, the icing on the cake is the case and peripherals. The EVGA X10 Carbon mouse, I'm getting the EVGA Z10 keyboard and the case is a Lian-Li PC-A79 - it's a beautiful and spacious XL-ATX case with a  removable motherboard tray.

My upgrade will hopefully be focused at EVGA products - I absolutely love them however Intel isn't performing well in the gaming community. I would be prepared to pay the premium if it's worth it, but as things are right now this isn't justifiable. I'm hopeful they will come around again, but it may not happen. I'll make another blog post when all of this happens.

All of this feeds into my desire to use this desktop as a daily driver. To work from home on a more permanent basis and with some independent contacts this will happen some day. I am however working my way through a plan to get there - gradually ticking things off on quite a big list.

All said and done, I can never go back to Windows and I couldn't be happier.