---
title: 2019 Retrospective
subtitle: A look at the year passed, and some goals for the upcoming year
date: 2020-01-01
draft: false
comments: false
tags: ["personal"]
---

Congratulations to us all, we have finally made it to 2020. The very big year that so many goals were created when I entered the APS in the Department of Climate Change and Energy Efficiency as a mere web administrator working primarily with SharePoint and publishing content.

I want to open with a note about the Australian bushfires - so much damage. We must recognize that we are lucky to have the circumstances we did. To have jobs, water, a roof on our heads. We must never forget how lucky we are because so many aren't even that fortunate.

Starting this year, I had some very big ambitions for myself. I wanted to take on a number of programming languages to the means of growing skill. Instead of this, I find myself scaling my expertise and time not horizontally, but vertically. This is a good thing, it shows I am maturing or at least being more selective about my decisions. Having been growing skills horizontally since starting my career, I am beginning to deepen my specialities instead of knowing even more.

A curious situation earlier this year was a simply question I couldn't answer... "What do you do?".

I couldn't answer - I could respond with my job title, the technology I work well with or the platform I work with but definitively I cannot answer the question directly. I guess... this was both flattering and awkward on my part and I seek to fix it. I personally define myself as a software engineer - however I've got work ahead of me yet to fill those shoes, so how I would market myself isn't completely true yet either.

I am looking out for myself at this point - the last couple of years I go into the year refreshed with a renewed focus and I believe I can continue to do the same. This year I've been working closer with dedicated DevOps and Infrastructure teams and this will be something I continue to drive. My interests and principles resonate with this crowd. I want to be working with platforms for improvement and not operationally working with a platform.

I could go one of two ways with my career. Given enough time I could continue down the technical path or I could position myself to a management position. I don't want to diverge completely from coding or the technical space but I am wanting to seek opportunity to gradually increase remote work with a goal of full-time remote work in a few years. I'm quite confident I could make the jump right now but I'd like this to be more gradual.

One area I've been particularly interested in is Kubernetes and Infrastructure, so there's a few goals are clear to me going into 2020. Having received and declined some informal offers to work with some notably interesting people, I am beginning to pave the way into the future. What am I going to do after being in the public service for 10 years - will formal work be interesting enough to keep me engaged more often than not? I've been pondering this and other questions and answers that since changing from my previous career have gone ignored and/or unanswered.

Paving the way, I would expect my new years revolutions are more modest and achievable than they've ever been. I need to find myself a k8s operator to build and develop. Conveniently enough, I've had an expression of interest from somebody who may be able to assist in formal arrangements. Formal training in infrastructure is probably due and I see this now as an area of interest which previously wasn't as interesting to me. I guess k8s has shown me that perhaps I can have a future in infrastructure if I can play the cards right. As a bi-product in necessity of moving into these directions I aim to gradually increase my remote working time.

I need to get myself into a position of dependence on my desktop system and an office. If I can manage to increase focus on work so that others aren't distracting me while working at home then in a couple of years this will pay off - even more so if I leave the APS. I already to quite a lot of work discretely outside of work so once more this is a logical step forward.

I've been incredibly fortunate to have worked where I am, and have. I started as a web publisher, I have done DevOps and local development. I have done systems and web development and application management and I've even done my fair share of kubernetes - as a user. Because of the trajectory, I can't see myself stopping or moving back - not yet at least.

I'd also love to call out a passion project I've been involved with this year. As many people have known since before I started by current position I've had a secret love for a little project called Pygmy - it's a dead-simple local development environment that comes with zero opinions about your applications. I have become one of the top contributors overall - in fact one of the only ones outside of the project's owner.

I rewrote the project in my favourite language for really a bit of selfish fun. Wanting to get better at writing Go and have fun. It was worked on for months towards the start of the year but I lost inspiration. A conversation I had with a friend one night may have changed that and provided the things we talked about gain momentum the coming years could be amazing. My point is that a friend helped re-spark the project and it eventually hit private testing followed by a public launch. It's everything Pygmy was, except it's infinitely customizable and more awesome.

It works very similarly to docker-compose, and it even uses the Docker daemon directly through its API - so many small achievements I aimed for have been achieved and it has been very well received upstream. I look forward to the future of this project despite it being feature-complete and nothing new will ever come from it. I'm happy, and I'm quite thrilled that so many people have provided positive feedback and bugs which have since been squashed.

Lastly, this year I ventured to Hobart for DrupalSouth which I'm yet to blog about. It was an amazing conference and experience, and I even got to speak about Drutiny. I'm not a speaker and there are so many things I could have done better on many accounts but I learnt a lot from that experience. I've upped my contributions in our wrapper `audit-site` application since the conference. I want to blog about this so I won't spoil much more - for me speaking was a milestone, and I already have ideas for a couple more. I'd like to think I can get myself to the next DrupalSouth in Wellington.

Happy Christmas, stay safe, and here's to a happy new year!  