---
title: Karl's Quarantine Survival Guide
subtitle: A personal guide to working from home during the summer of 2020
date: 2020-03-26
draft: false
comments: false
tags: ["personal"]
---

> Note this blog post is more of a personal journal and guide, there are so many blog posts about this but I wanted one of my own to refer back to.

Nobody in Australia was ready for Summer of 2019/2020.

The Planeteers comprised of Earth, Fire, Wind, Water and Heart. This can all be correlated to the season we've had here and of course more broadly is the organic and natural evolution to the seemingly biological Coronavirus identified as COVID-19. Needless to say a lot of people have been impacted by this tragic season and as of typing this Australia still hasn't announced a lockdown.

Now, I have done a lot of work leading up to working from home full-time with no dependency on work-issued devices. I have a Windows drive, I have a 2014 MacBook which I got soon after starting at my current employer. I've been going in a ery specific direction - all-in on Linux. I can thank my friend Ben for finally pulling that trigger so many years. I've been using Windows less and less ever since moving to MacOS because of work.

The passion I once had for computing and gaming is returning in the era of mature user-focused Linux. I admit, my passion degraded after the days of Windows 8.1 and I've reached a point where I tire of MacOS. I chose Arch - I wanted something with a higher barrier of entry. I love it far more than I ever imagined. I've made the situation even deeper for myself by going all-in on the i3 window manager.

So for those that understand it is a lot to take in as a newie with little logic applied. I wanted to do it, so I did it. With some success and some failure, I have succeeded on the grounds of persistence - because if I keep at it I am bound to succeed - eventually.

As a result of the pandemic I'm now working from home. I wanted to make a list of things that personally are helping _me_, so please consider your actions carefully before taking my advice.

All of this came about not from the pandemic, but was already in mature stages of planning ahead of this event, as longer term I intend to work from home full-time because of want the benefits of the lifestyle.

## Steps for survival

### Find a workflow that works for _you_

My biggest shift is moving operating system. This means moving workflows completely. All of my work-dependencies need to seamlessly be able to shift or else it doesn't work. Iteratively I've been breaking the barriers down.

1. Comfort and confidence with the system
2. Software dependencies need resolution/mitigation
3. Network dependencies need resolution/mitigation

#### My workflow

I've now got real experience customising my already custom operating system. I'm incrementally [adding to it](https://github.com/fubarhouse/dotfiles-linux). In addition to this I'm moving all dependencies to the OS. How would I use a private VPN on the device - how could I make myself completely independent of any other device. I'm now keeping score of the reasons I pick up another device - such as a password manager, a VPN, any tiny excuse I can't use the primary device is now recorded, and the private gist has most of the checkboxes ticked now.

To my surprise, many of these barriers needed a little bit of trial and error but are actually much easier than before. 

### Become efficient with your workflow, and be proactive.

With the new workflow, become efficient, and get yourself to focus.

1. Work out a schedule, a routine, and stick to it.
2. Break the day up, take small breaks infrequently.
3. Plan coffee breaks and stick to a schedule
4. Find a good YouTube playlist/compilation/video with neutral, upbeat music. It should be ideal to sustain increased energy without removing your focus.

#### Efficiencies that help me

I've coerced a social meeting every morning to enforce a morning coffee which I've found is really important to keeping focus and momentum. With other measures I believe my plan to become more efficient will come through. Music which doesn't distract or overindulge, but is not therapeutic enough to put me to sleep when I'm not focused. Given I listen to heavy metal, I have chosen house music at a moderate bpm to sustain the flow. It's a very uncharacteristic choice for me however it's proving the value of the decision quickly.

Additionally I'm forcing myself to have an afternoon coffee because I know this is the time I'm much less focused. This has been a good boost and is helping me both stay focused during the downtime and into the night. This will be critical to keeping focused while I'm going for CKA & CKAD. 

This momentum will naturally lead to more proactive work, ideas and such. Once you've reduces all of your barriers this should flow naturally and so long as you're able to maintain the momentum you'll be fine.

### Never forget about your mental health

You'll be confined to your house with family and/or house-mates, you won't have much of a social life with your colleagues. This has the ability to drive people crazy, and even to drive depression and by extension - suicide. It's important to maintain a social life, at least as best as you can.

1. Have regular meetings that don't have _any_ context
2. Vent/talk to a colleague about your emotions if you need to.
3. Remember that you aren't alone, reach out if/when you need to.

#### What helps me

Turn off your notifications on non-critical services. Turn off all notifications on Teams, Slack, Discord and any other communications channels which aren't for emergency work. I am yet to do this however I have noticed how much time goes into this. Knowing that works Microsoft Teams is monitored more than your average one, and the frequency of social notifications I am adopting a similar approach to one of my colleagues. Shut it out, open it infrequently - if somebody needs to reach you they will. For regular stuff, schedule meetings.

Speaking of which, as much as you should stay away from meetings and distractions it's very important to be social. Focus your time to meetings that have no context - make the time you spend with your colleagues valuable. I'm quickly understanding that this generally will make you and your team closer.

## Conclusion

Remote working? Well provided I can lock myself away and get work done I am in love with the culture, workflow and the change in general. I'm not cutting myself off in any way, I am taking extra measures to ensure output of work such as working a few hours one or more nights a week.

Even after the pandemic this change is not something I want to revert and it's something I will advocate for indefinitely. What executives generally in my field and industry don't realise is that this is how industry abroad works and this is where I want to be aligned.

Make the situation work for you and commit to it - completely, because you don't know what the situation will be like afterwards and if you don't commit you will not adjust. Call it a lesson in experience, it isn't for everybody. If you don't commit, you might miss the opportunity to maximise it. 