---
date: 2023-03-15T12:00:00-05:00
description: ""
tags: [""]
title: "A new beginning."
---

I've been through quite a life-changing journey these past few years, as have
most of us. I certainly have grown as a person since I last maintained this
site.

One of my goals I never achieved before the pandemic of 2020 was to clean this
site up, convert it to dark mode and make it easier for me to publish more
regularly.

Unfortunately for me, the workflow I used then was becoming my downfall. And
now, I feel I could contribute more to this space. So I needed to repair this
blog at some point in the future.

There's now a flowing level of content that I can tap into, for example:

- My rather peculiar health condition over the past three months, including 
  hundreds of interesting photos. As well as recently learning more about skin
  and wounds I've had recently, I can directly correlate my progress to natural
  healing with photos.
- My trip to Brisbane for DrupalSouth was mazing, and I'd love to share some
  highlights.
- I have an upcoming trip to Wellington for this year's DrupalSouth upcoming
  in May. I have planned a bit to do for myself with what little time I'll have
  spare.
- My career path I fought hard to have. I've opened myself up to some of the
  most amazing people I now call my friends. I'm committed to the long-term
  success where I am but if I wanted to work with different technologies, 
  those opportunities are now possible. I'm very fortunate to be here, and
  I hope I can learn as much as I can from them.

There's a lot I'm excited to share! I've had more frequent opportunities to
focus on my communication skills, in both writing and speaking. It has always
been lacklustre, and I'm beginning to understand how to improve my strength
with these weaknesses.

In the meantime, I'm announcing that this site is back. It's now not a
maintenance burden. I can push to a branch, and GitHub Actions will take care
of the rest. The repository structure is now bare-bones as a result of these
efforts.

I look forward to sharing more with you soon.