---
date: 2023-04-15T20:41:00+10:00
summary: "I'm coming to Wellington for DrupalSouth 2023!"
tags: ["conference", "travel", "work"]
title: "Wellington in May"
---

I am delighted to finally share that I will be presenting at DrupalSouth 2023
in Wellington! I have known for a while and haven't been able to share it. This
week the speakers for the event have been published, and I can finally share
the news!

The presentation is “Getting the most out of your CI/CD experience”, and I’m
representing PreviousNext. I’m grateful for the opportunity to try and improve
my communication skills.

I will be presenting to achieve the following objectives:

- Showing what CI/CD is and why we do it.
- Looking at convenient ways to optimise pipelines.
- Sharing a maturity model for CI/CD.

While in the area, I will also hang out with my friends and competitors in the
Drupal & Drupal hosting space. I love all of them, and I do consider them all
friends. Even if we do compete, its not a barrier to friendship for me. It will
be a pleasure to hang out with them again.

In the time that I have to myself, I've made some plans. To say I'm looking
forward to this trip isn't saying enough. My health has been through a
roller-coaster in the past few months and I am looking forward to this trip. To
me - it'll be a victory march to be there, walking and presenting for this
conference.

I've been working towards this trip since I got sick in December, needing to
ensure I was healthy enough to travel for this event as it was supposed to
happen back in 2020. My recovery has been a nessisarily slow process, and I
will share more about it in the future. The plans for DrupalSouth 2020 in
Wellington never fruitioned because of the global pandemic. As it were, I
couldn't have attended back then, but that bottleneck is no more.

I will be sure to share experiences and activities here, but I don't intend
to spoil any of that just yet.