---
title: Let's talk coffee.
summary: I'm high on espresso!
date: 2018-03-01
draft: false
comments: false
tags: []
---

Fair warning this may sound like a marketing pitch - I'm just very happy with this product and I thought I'd share. I've tried to articulate this to show the problems with the way I make coffee and how this product will help ease those problems.

I thought I'd take a break from paid work and online training to recognise the brilliance of a portable little modular device I've been using for a short while. The Nanopresso from [Wacaco](https://www.wacaco.com/) is a peculiar little device which is an evolution of another. I bought mine from [Alternative Brewing](https://alternativebrewing.com.au/), which is an Australian company I've been meaning to try for some time.

It features a base product available in a number of colours and patterns, a nespresso adapter, a double shot adapter and a large(r) water tank which is basically like a thermos. I bought a pack which has the base product and the Nespresso adapter.

So for me there are several selling points and reasons I've gone about this.

* The mass of coffee used in extraction is notably smaller than what I'm accustomed to (Aeropress scoopers are huge and I used to have 8 a day).
* The above point makes it significantly cheaper for me to drink the amount of coffee I want to - which may mean I can try more boutique beans later on.
* When I so desire I will have the option of using Nespresso pods using the NS adapter included in the bundle.
* It produces real espresso and crema compared to what I used to have. Aeropress is awesome but it's not real espresso. Nor is this strictly from a technical point but you simply can't tell.
* It will encourage me to drink elss coffee, favouring quality for time better spent.
* The process to extract coffee end-to-end will take much less time, energy and cleaning.

So there's the benefit of having copious amounts of quality coffee at my fingertips because I grind my own beans. It is the perfect sweet-spot. I'm not saying any of this is good, it's an unhealthy habit to the degree I do it. I'm hoping this will help cut back.

