---
title: From PaaS to SaaS
summary: Out of the fire, and into the frying pan.
date: 2019-03-15
draft: false
comments: false
tags: []
---

This post doesn't set out with any goals in mind - it's more of a personal note to progress around certain career decisions. It'll explore my background at my previous employer and my achievements whilst I was there, and the reactions and actions associated with the service provider change with our provider looking towards the future.

## Background

I guess you could say I've had some recent changes in responsibility in the past months. And a rather peculiar change too - instead of going from a software offering to a platform offering, I have jumped from a platform offering to a software offering. Normally people don't take this path, so I wanted to talk about it briefly.

I've been conditioned to self-managing skills and capability so I go to efforts to preserve skills and expertise. A Software offering would by definition limit the scope of what I would be allowed to work on/with.

I've never publicly disclosed in writing what I've accomplished while I was with my last employer. Because of the culture of the workplace, I'm not able to go into any detail.

In my previous role, I found myself in a very unique position. I was in a position to get involved with building a platform which developers could build from - and I created a VM image which was rolled out. I supported two development teams with this platform and everything that went into it including a range of monstrous bash applications similar in size to NVM, including language tools like PyEnv, RbEnv, and others. Eventually, an inevitable upgrade to an open source pipeline system which was isolated to each deployment of the VM.

This build system had a couple of evolutions, but it essentially allowed users to build a local environment from a common codebase which is the supported technology of our applications. It used the same process for production releases to provide reproducible artifacts and streamlined the process. Our applications also evolved structurally at the time moving from a legacy build system natively supported to the community standards currently supported with long-term support.

Later on, I actually prototyped a Jenkins DinD model which would use docker images inside a Docker container to run jobs inside Jenkins. There was no practical reason for this other than to curve my interest, and it brought me closer to where I was heading.

Everything I've done over the past few years had underpinnings from open-source, and I am proud of all I've achieved in this time and would not have it any other way. Having involvement in front-end, back-end application work as well as project work such as design, advising, planning, task management etc you can reliably say I had a broad range of experience.

So, looking for my next career challenge I found myself drawn to a totally different offering which provides SaaS. Well, I find myself in a position of influence and of technical interest more than losing their ability to do technically focused work they would thrive doing. This SaaS platform is one of great interest to me personally, and it's one of the reasons I made the move. I should note that the change of level of influence comes with a caveat - I no longer have deciding power over a managed distribution and this is a very good thing.

## Reception

After the new service provider was announced with all the bells and whistles which I had been asking for for years it was time. I went all-in on Docker and Kubernetes and veered away from the precious VM which had brought me so much joy. This change was almost instant - like a calling.

I previously met with other PaaS users several times about usage, how to achieve things not supported by the software-only offering. They are very opinionated about certain things and we have mutual respect for what we have independently achieved, I've received no negative feedback about the move and I admit I am grateful. I want to note this because there is a documented contention here because of what we typically consider a gap in capacity for skilled individuals. Truth be told it's incredibly hard to find *really* good people who are good with all these tools in our space, and I've seen many recruitment rounds fail for many numbers of reasons.

## Looking ahead

In this new ecosystem, we as individuals have clearly defined goals and scope - which is incredibly important. We don't need to worry about having our authority overridden as long as there's community census for a given problem, because our managers and directors trust us to empower the community through features and tooling.

I've intentionally set the bar for myself high - people have said rightly that the infrastructure tooling does not need to be replicated anywhere for me is more of a challenge than a necessity. Working with these tools and applications has become a lot easier after getting past the first few hurdles.

It's important for me to say I believe in this vision, and I also believe the right people in the right positions can achieve incredible things. All my work which lead me to where I am is important because I would not be here without it.

I want to reinforce the fact that technical capacity and know-how can be hard to come by - especially if you need to narrow it to specific niches. This game would also come down to survival - if I'm interested, motivated and if I have a specific focus of interest, then I certainly need to stay employed where my future is concrete.

Note: See [Out of the frying pan and into the fire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Out_of_the_frying_pan_into_the_fire) for the reference in the summary - note that I have reversed it.
