---
title: The Lagoon.
summary: It's time to get nautical.
date: 2019-01-11
draft: false
comments: false
tags: []
---

It's no secret among my community that I've changed employers to work more directly with the awesome setup which is offered to their consumers for information services.

I wanted to share my excitement for one area of Lagoon - API's.

The Lagoon platform is a completely open-source platform for hosting web services which is basically as limited as your imagination. 

Since the announcement was issued I have embraced the change with a lot of excitement. Using Docker and Kubernetes inside government with an open source platform including CI/CD? How could anybody not be excited? In fact this is why I signed up to be a part of it.

There are tonnes of API queries available for use and more are being added. If you follow the project it becomes apparent the intention of these new API's to be made available to the end-user in the UI where it is appropriate.

Lagoon itself is spread into a bunch of interacting micro-services, but the API will interact with the configured OpenShift instance and you can interact with it using web-hooks using git or the API.

These tasks can be run to impact OpenShift and Lagoon itself. The wonderful thing about the API is that you can configure both it and the OpenShift instance to point to your own location. You can actually perform platform development locally provided you understand how the pieces fit together. It also means you're able to use MiniShift for local development, however deploying Lagoon into MiniShift will take a lot of system resources. It's completely decoupled using configuration and makes sense.

For better knowledge of how the API's work, Lagoon stores its own database. When certain API triggers are called it will call a function which may transmit the change to OpenShift - depending on the intent. Those API's are triggered by sending a query to the API server to handle the query and the authentication is handled by a Bearer token. These same API's drive the information which you can find in the UI which originates from the database.

A command-line tool known as Lagu has been worked on to provide a layer of interaction with the API, as well as obviously the UI. I've personally had little success with this tool, however I'm more interested in rebuilding my own version of the tool for a variety of reasons including features, ease-of-use and the way Lagu handles authentication. This tool which isn't really intended to go public but will be built so that it can later. No reason it can't as it will depend on a token and endpoint which are configurable and testing and development will be done exclusively on a localhost. The intention is to be useful to me personally and to educate me more on this system more than it is to build a new tool.

I've already successfully been using these API's in Go on a local instance, and I've created some common functionality the tool can just pass parameters to which I'll probably abstract into an interface. It's already turning out to be a really fun little experiment which has conveniently enough allowed me to code more Go.

Lagoon really is an awesome project and it's incredibly fun to fool around with locally - so please try it out! If you're more serious about using the platform in production, you can always contact [Amazee.io](http://amazee.io/) or you can be a developer on the applications it provides - they have a bunch of clients and partners listed in their footer.

**Disclaimer**: note that everything I've spoken about is publicly available on [GitHub](https://github.com/amazeeio/lagoon/) in the code - I've simply had time to dive into the details and to actually use it a little more in-depth locally. Their [documentation](https://lagoon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) has really improved since I started using it, so it's definitely worth the read if you can spare the time.