---
title: My journey from PaaS to SaaS
summary: Out of the fire, and into the frying pan.
date: 2019-03-19
draft: false
comments: false
tags: []
---

The transition from having a master key to having only a few keys to the kingdom is an interesting tale full of surprise, passion, comedy and perhaps treason. It's a tale I've journeyed recently and I've been wanting to tell it for a little while.

I have journeyed from one job to another, going from having nearly total control to having no unjustified control. Every control mechanism of managed products would be rewritten.

I designed a multitude of development platforms over the past few years in several varieties and was still enjoying the infrastructure work - however, we were always limited because our service provider used archaic methodologies. We needed our technology to align with theirs - so how could we possibly rise up to a new challenge - how could I go beyond those limitations?

I'll admit I've seen much worse elsewhere, but a virtual machine with no tangible metrics using git-based deployment with Drupal multi-sites? It's traditional, and it was limiting in nature. Every innovation into our development platform was worthwhile, but the same barriers were hit each time. Perhaps the biggest in moves was going from Drush to Composer with Drupal 7 - and my interest was reasonably sustained because there were a lot of custom modules and a lot of sites on the multi-site website.

For the longest time, I've managed to ascertain a linear growth in a specialty in Drupal's technical space not only in release and deployments but also in module development. I had, in fact, gained a lot of experience building various modules for various people including an API endpoint which guided file links in a specific path convention. Also of note, a personal project sprouted from some of this work, and my [Brand](https://www.drupal.org/project/brand) module was born.

Brand is actually my pet project for learning - the very foundation is one I personally funded for a different reason whilst on Christmas holidays a few years ago - but it was a variation on an administrative dream I've been working on for years with heaps of bells and whistles attached.

It should background my reasons for seeking change, though I'll keep it short. The truth was: compounding limitations in my work and employment. I was scrabbling for challenges, and I was under unwarranted stress and financially suffering, I recognised my unique position of opportunity and yet despite this I still wanted things to be different. If so many agencies I've spoken with experience a struggle to get a person like me, how can I ever expect to get a substitute for my position when I'm sick? How could I ever achieve an increase of salary or get the position increase I've long deserved? They were already so comfortable with me overworking myself, it was never going to happen.

When I set out for a new job I had a very specific subset of requirements which I was not willing to compromise initially. I would eventually cave into my own demands only days before receiving a letter of offer and a promotion offer from my employer. There were various parties interested in acquiring me, and it was an important and stress-educing time for me.

When our service provider [announced](https://www.finance.gov.au/blog/2018/07/announcement-new-service-provider-govcms/) the use of Docker, Kubernetes, GitLab and all the bells and whistles of the new platform the effect it had on me was overwhelming and instantly was drawn to it.

For me, this was the spark I was so desperate to find.

Having all of the barriers removed in favour of a modern technology written in my favourite language, including full remote CI/CD and Kubernetes. I was in my element, and immediately I stopped using the virtual machine I had spent years on. All of the things I had asked our service providers to bring to me just landed right in front of me - in fact, I remember asking the executives very specifically for these features some months before.

So, I began several projects and picked up a couple of different Udemy courses. Not that I needed them all, but for some of them I needed to refresh my memory. I took example projects which the vendor maintains, poked and played with them and found some issues which I resolved for my own selfish use. This was long before we had formal advice on what we should actually be doing. It was this path which leads me to provide integration with an alternative proxy service whilst using their integrated tool, and I fell in love with it so much that I still manage a fork of this today.

I endured the process of learning how to 'build' Lagoon to run locally, of my own will. I should note this step is not needed of any developer, however, I wanted to for the sake of my interest and education. It is an incredibly fun and interesting project - an open-source platform for application management and deployment running on Kubernetes. How can you not be excited?

This is an ongoing process - I'm still toying with this project frequently and it's wonderful to see the full system running inside MiniShift and seeing how it all works.

My continuous work in this space was getting some attention and I confess there were some individuals who knew I was unhappy where I was and understood why and the conditions I was looking for in a new position - all of which was important knowledge for them later on.

Over the coming months, I continued to get more experience with the platform. I became a Lagoon contributor and I picked up a few skills such as React and GraphQL. At some point, a number of jobs hit the market - one of which was a blessing in disguise that I failed to get however the transparency of applying for these roles had an impact on my superiors. It was causing a number of people where I worked to become nervous, and a couple of parties were actively trying to take advantage. This put me into anxiety at the time - adding to my already obscene levels of stress.

I eventually succeeded at getting a new job, surprise. In my field and location, work is plentiful and inevitible however the conditions I sought were rare. In my efforts to move I was very close to nearly enter contracting work again for no other reason than to stay impartial to where I wanted to be and earn a reasonable salary for it. Money isn't everything - I would prefer to have more influence with interesting projects rather than to be doing work which for the better part would not interest me for a sizable payout. A lot of interesting circumstances were quickly eventuating.

I'll admit I was incredibly stressed and undertaking undue anxiety in the weeks leading up to accepting the role and leaving my former position. There's not much I can say - it was not fun. I sought a lot of advice at this point from every side - I could be heading into a very different world I may not have liked. I proceeded to accept the job based on a single conversation with somebody well-informed about the team and position at the new agency.

The new job provides many new opportunities to work inside the exciting world which I positioned myself for. It allows for the involved individuals to not become dictators of their services and products - the control over these aspects was stripped away from me.

In return, I was not concerning myself with fine-grain details which did not matter. I am now utilising my passions and skills in an entirely new light, to provide betterment to the entire platform and the surrounding services. On top of this, I have more ability on the platform and the surrounding services and I am directly involved in the conversations that contribute to them - which is exactly where I want to be.

Being involved in this project is an honour - it underpins a broad and diverse community and its tenants are countless Australian government agencies in which adoption simply isn't slowing. Years ago in a separate agency we talked about the prospects of having a platform this entire government would utilise for information services. To serve as a senior on such a platform is nothing short of honourable and humbling. 

The last part of my story covers my note about treason. It is not so, however its a comical comparison. Let me just say technical expertise inside my field focused outside of my field is rather difficult to come by. Many technical challenges I simply built a solution for because I needed a solution when I asked others how they solved those problems it became very quiet - and this was in the set of users I had more interest in because of their capability. It was, however, comforting that a lot of the background decisions were similar even though the two agencies I was involved in had never had involvement with the others.

They were unhappy with some of the decisions and the inability of what other non-technical customer contracts have in-place. All of those things are fair when you are not focusing on the big picture and I was there. I care deeply about allowing those who are technically capable to truly thrive and to be blunt it is exceptionally difficult if not impossible for many reasons inside of government. If you were to consider operational value such as security and administration in regards to the ISM, you would be joking yourself thinking a PaaS could ever be run by the book long-term.

Having said that, those people seem genuinely happy for me to have moved in the direction I moved, though I still don't know if they grasp how this move will positively make its impact on me as a person and my life (comparatively), I hope they do or will because the platform we share really is awesome.

So, the past year has been so completely wild, and I really have wanted to write about it for some time. Every proceeding draft of this transition was not adequately sanitised so it has proven difficult to safely articulate. Talking about my work in a public space is a challenge when you work within a government agency.
